---
tags: python-course
title: lesson-01
---

# GHOP: Introduction to the course

:::info
:bulb: Introduction and overview of the course, tools, and topics covered. Introduction to the core concepts of programming and computation.
:::

:::success
:movie_camera: VIB background fading to course title slide. James and Ninas smiling faces fade in.
:::

:::warning
:notes: Upbeat intro music
:::

**James**: Hello and welcome to the Gentle Hands-On Introduction to Python Programming course presented by VIB and Elixir Belgium. My name is James...

**Nina**: and my name is Nina. Together, James and I will guide you on the beginning of your journey into the amazingly useful world of programming.

**James**: We will use a programming language called Python for most of this course. But we will start by introducing you to the fundamental concepts of programming and computation. After this we will learn about the language by building useful programs.

**Nina**: Before we start, please make sure you have followed the setup instructions. If you have decided to use VSCodium please start it and open the "chapter 1" notebook. Alternatively, if you have chosen to use Google Colab please open the "chapter 1" notebook there. If you have any difficulties please contact your instructor.

:::success
:movie_camera: Fade to the chapter 1 notebook in the background. James and Nina in foreground sitting at a table.
:::

**James**: These tools provide a programming environment for you which you will use for the majority of this course. Rest assured these are professional tools used by professional programmers to write real programs. They are not "toys". They are, however, very useful for experimentation which is very important while you are starting out.

**Nina**: To ensure everything is set up correctly you should open a new "cell" in the notebook and type in an expression.

:::success
:movie_camera: Demonstrate opening a cell and typing an expression in the background.
:::

**James**: So what just happened?

**Nina**: I wrote a very short program, that is the text displayed in the cell here. This is programming. When I clicked on the evaluate button the computer performed the computation required to evaluate my program and displayed the result.

**James**: Kind of like when we were small children. Our parents would ask us simple questions like, "What is 3 + 2?". We would count off on our fingers: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. Finally we would say, "5". Our parents programmed and we computed.

**Nina**: I used the Python programming language to describe a computation. This is what programming is: a formal specification of something that is computable. It must be formal and precise because computers aren't smart. They're machines that will do exactly as a programmers specifies. No more and no less.

**James**: So programming is like writing instructions to describe a task?

**Nina**: Yes indeed! We can do this together. I will program and you compute.
Place your pen on the paper and move it up.

(James places his pen sideways on the paper then lifts it 20cm above the table)

**Nina** (looking into the camera): My instructions weren't precise. James made no assumptions about what I meant and carried out my instructions to the letter. I need to be more precise.

**Nina**: Move the writing end of your pen so that it touches the centre of the page. Remember this as the starting point. Move the pen away from you, keeping the writing tip in contact with the page, for 5cm. Keeping the writing tip in contact with the page, move the pen horizontally to the right for 5cm. Finally, keeping the writing tip incontact with the page, move the pen back to the starting point.

**James** (Holding up the page of paper for the camera to see): I've drawn a triangle.

**Nina** (looking into the camera): You should try this yourself. Try to write out instructions for making your favourite hot or cold drink. Be as detailed as possible. When you're satisfied ask a friend to follow the instructions as closely as possible without making any assumptions. How far did they get? Did you make any mistakes? 

:::success
:movie_camera: Slide for exercise 1.
:::

**James**: Pause the video now and attempt the exercise.

:::warning
:notes: Waiting music
:::

**James**: This is the end of the first lesson. You should have some understanding of the structure of the course and what we will cover. You have also learned about what it is to program and to compute. You have discovered that programs are a sequential ordering of steps that must be unambiguous to a computer.

**Nina**: In the next lesson we will begin using the Hedy programming environment to build some real programs.

:::success
:movie_camera: Fade to VIB logo slide.
:::

:::warning
:notes: Upbeat outro music
:::
