---
tags: python-course
title: lesson-02
---

# Hedy

:::info
:bulb: Introduce Hedy as a playful, multi-lingual, gradual programming environment.
:::

:::success
:movie_camera: VIB background fading to course title slide. James and Ninas smiling faces fade in.
:::

:::warning
:notes: Upbeat intro music
:::

**Nina**: Programmers use many software programs (we often call them "tools") outside of our programming language to help us build programs. In this video we will introduce you to a tool called Hedy.

**James**: What is Hedy?

**Nina**: Hedy is a fun programming language that anyone can use in their web browser. It is special because it is multi-lingual and starts very simple, gradually building up in difficulty until it is _real Python_.

**James**: If you're watching this video as part of a course provided by VIB, you should have received a link to join a Hedy classroom for the course. You should follow this link with your web browser now.

:::success
:movie_camera: Fade to the level 1 introduction page.
:::

**Nina**: Behind us you can see Hedy. You should see the same page. This is _level 1_, in which you have access to 3 programming commands. Before we start using Hedy though, let's familiarise ourselves first.

:::success
:movie_camera: Zoom in on the text editing box.
:::

**James**: You can type code into this editing box here.

:::success
:movie_camera: Move mouse over the "Run code" button.
:::

**James**: When you are ready to run the program that you have typed in, press the "Run code" button.

:::success
:movie_camera: Zoom out to also display the console.
:::

**Nina**: Your program can display output in the console section here.

:::success
:movie_camera: Display a subtle flashing highlight around the console. Then zoom out to the whole page.
:::

**James**: There are some examples displayed here. Clicking the green button will copy the example code into the code editor.

:::success
:movie_camera: Demonstrate clicking the green button for an example. Then zoom in to the challenges tabs.
:::

**Nina**: Here are some challenges for you to tackle once you have familiarised yourself with this level. Let's do that now...

:::success
:movie_camera: Zoom back to the entire page.
:::

**Nina**: As I said earlier, the first level of Hedy gives us access to 3 programming commands: `print` allows us to display text in the console; `ask` allows us to get some user input by asking a question; and `echo` allows us to display the users answer to the question we asked.

**James**: (looking at the camera) You should now try out these commands to get a feel for what they do. Once you are ready click on one of the challenge tabs and attempt to solve it.

**Nina**: (looking at the camera) Once you have completed 2 or 3 challenges try to complete the quiz and proceed to the next level. Once you have completed level 4 come back to this video. You can pause the video now.

:::warning
:notes: Waiting music
:::

**James**: (looking at the camera) Did you enjoy programming with Hedy? Ask yourself what you learned:
  * How are Hedy programs executed?
  * What is the purpose of placing quotation marks on each side of a string?

**Nina**: We hope you enjoyed using Hedy to familiarise yourself with the basic concepts of programming. You will develop and hone these concepts as you build your programming skill.

**James**: In the next 3 lessons we will discuss and apply 3 basic programming concepts: types, values, and functions.

:::success
:movie_camera: Fade to VIB logo slide.
:::

:::warning
:notes: Upbeat outro music
:::
